docs(beta): add data fetching guide (#5161)
refinedev/refine: documentation/docs/guides-concepts/data-fetching/index.md

---
title: Data Fetching
---

import UseOne from "./use-one";
import UseUpdate from "./use-update";
import UseList from "./use-list";
import UseListWithFilters from "./use-list-with-filters";
import MultipleDataProvider from "./multiple-data-provider";
import Authentication from "./authentication";
import OneToOne from "./one-to-one";
import OneToMany from "./one-to-many";
import ErrorHandling from "./error-handling";
import SupportedDataProviders from "@site/src/partials/data-provider/supported-data-providers.md";
import DataHooks from "@site/src/partials/data-provider/data-hooks.md";
import DataProviderInterface from "./data-provider-interface.md";

> Data provider acts as a data layer for your app, making requests and encapsulating how the data is retrieved. The methods of these requests are then consumed by **refine** via data hooks (`useOne`, `useUpdate`, `useList` etc.) which are used for actions like creating, reading, updating, and deleting a record.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Data is essential for any UI Application, and these UI applications are a bridge between users and the data source. With UI applications, we are serving data to the users in a way they can understand and modify as needed.

To streamline communication with data sources, **refine**  users data providers, serving as a central data layer connecting your APIs with **refine** applications.

Data providers act as an intermediary layer for your application, handling requests and managing data retrieval or modification.

**refine** provides various hooks (useOne, useList, useUpdate) for you to utilize your data provider, eventually making a request to your data source and making it available to **refine** application.
```
